# Description
*What is it?, Contributors, Activity, Use, Popularity, Languages used, platform, documentation sources, etc.*

The [Malware Information Sharing Project (MISP)](https://www.misp-project.org) is a Linux based program which analyzes, stores and permits for easy sharing of malware threats.  They are currently on version 2.4.79 and the code is available for download via [GitHub](https://github.com/MISP/MISP).  It is written mostly in PHP, with some portions of CSS, JavaScript, and HTML, per a report from [OpenHub.net](https://www.openhub.net/p/MISPProject/analyses/latest/languages_summary).  

The project began, as many do, as a side project.  Christophe Vandeplas started work, on what is now called MISP, in June 2011.  He saw a need to be able to take Indicators of Compromise, no matter how they are submitted, via email, pdfs, etc., and create a way to parse that information so it could be analyzed and shared.  Documentation is maintained in a [git book](https://github.com/MISP/misp-book) format. You can run a version of the project via premade virtual machines that are compatible with VirtualBox and there are third-party docker containers available to be used as well, the project website has links available.  In addition, there are many software providers that offer tools that extend the capabilities of the original MISP code and project.

Per the GitHub repository there is a total of 67 contributors that now maintain the project on a volunteer basis.  There have been regular commits to it for the last year, and the GitHub reports show there have been regular one's since 2012.  

# Licensing & Contributions
*Discuss License, procedures for making contributions, and contributor agreements*

The [MISP Project](http://www.misp-project.org/) is licensed using the GNU Affero General Public License v3.0, a copyleft license that is very similar to the GNU General Public License v3 with one additional requirement [1].  The GNU GPL v3 allows open source software to stay open source by permitting it to be used in subsequent projects but requiring that the source code of those subsequent works is made open source under the same terms set forward by the GNU GPL v3 license [2].  The GNU Affero General Public License v3.0 adheres to these same rules with the added requirement of publishing the source code when changes are made to the code and it is run on a server where users are allowed to connect to it.  This ensures that developers that take the code and modify it to run on their own servers are also required to share those changes with the community, ensuring that the software stay open source.

The project has a well documented contributions process.  Contributions can be made by identifying new features, bugs, issues, or security vulnerabilities.  When contributing features, bugs, or issues, the contribution should be made by opening an issue on the [GitHub page](https://github.com/MISP/MISP/issues).  Feature requests are tagged to identify them.  The project team encourages contributors to review existing issues and feature requests before submitting a new one.  If the same issue or feature is identified, they encourage interacting with the existing one rather than opening a new one because they determine priority for new features issues based on the number of users who are interested in them.  

The following detailed steps explain how a contribution should be made.  If an issue or feature request is being made, an issue should be opened on the project's GitHub page.  This issue should include as much detail as possible including what version is affected, the steps users can take to reproduce the issue, and screenshots of the issue if available.  If the contributor is submitting code to resolve an issue or feature request, the following should occur.  First, the contributor should fork the project to create their own copy.  Then, they should branch the project from the latest version.  This is where they will make their recommended changes.  Once the changes are made, they should commit them with a meaningful commit message.  This message should include as much detail as possible about what was changed.  Then, a pull request should be opened to recommend the changes.  The project team recommends that the following best practices take place throughout this process.  Commit messages should include as much detail as possible.  Changes should be small and gradual versus making many changes at once.  If documentation changes are required for the pull request, those should be committed at the same time.  Ensure that when a commit and pull request is done that all sensitive information that may be used for testing purposes is removed.

Security vulnerabilities are handled differently.  The team requests that security vulnerabilities be reported directly to the [Computer Incident Response Center - Luxembourg (CIRCL)](https://www.circl.lu/contact/) and encrypted with a specific PGP key to maintain security since the tool is used in many critical infrastructure areas.  Security vulnerabilities are usually fixed within 48 hours after being confirmed.  CVEs are requested for each vulnerability, either by the contributor or by the project team.  The project will give credit to contributors who identify security vulnerabilities if the contributor chooses to be acknowledged.

The MISP project does not explicitly state any contributor agreements.  However, the following are in place for contributors.  The project does adhere to a [code of conduct](https://github.com/MISP/MISP/blob/2.4/code_of_conduct.md) which ensures that all contributors are welcome and treated respectfully and fairly.  In addition, the project does acknowledge security vulnerabilities as stated above as well as project authors.  Authors are acknowledged in the [authors document](https://github.com/MISP/MISP/blob/2.4/AUTHORS).  However, it is unclear what criteria needs to be met to be acknowledged in this document since it is not an exhaustive list of all contributors.

# Security
## Security related history (e.g. known vulnerabilities),
* https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2017-14337 - When MISP before 2.4.80 is configured with X.509 certificate authentication (CertAuth) in conjunction with a non-MISP external user management ReST API, if an external user provides X.509 certificate authentication and this API returns an empty value, the unauthenticated user can be granted access as an arbitrary user. *Published: September 12, 2017; 12:29:00 PM -04:00*
* https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2017-13671 - app/View/Helper/CommandHelper.php in MISP before 2.4.79 has persistent XSS via comments. It only impacts the users of the same instance because the comment field is not part of the MISP synchronisation. *Published: August 24, 2017; 03:29:00 PM -04:00*
* https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2017-7215 - Cross site scripting in some view elements in the index filter tool in app/webroot/js/misp2.4.68.js and the organisation landing page in app/View/Organisations/ajax/landingpage.ctp of MISP before 2.4.69 allows remote attackers to inject arbitrary web script or HTML. *Published: March 21, 2017; 03:59:00 PM -04:00*
* https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2015-5721 - Malware Information Sharing Platform (MISP) before 2.3.90 allows remote attackers to conduct PHP object injection attacks via crafted serialized data, related to TemplatesController.php and populate_event_from_template_attributes.ctp. *Published: September 03, 2016; 04:59:02 PM -04:00*
* https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2015-5720 - Multiple cross-site scripting (XSS) vulnerabilities in the template-creation feature in Malware Information Sharing Platform (MISP) before 2.3.90 allow remote attackers to inject arbitrary web script or HTML via vectors involving (1) add.ctp, (2) edit.ctp, and (3) ajaxification.js. *Published: September 03, 2016; 04:59:01 PM -04:00*
* https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2015-5719 - app/Controller/TemplatesController.php in Malware Information Sharing Platform (MISP) before 2.3.92 does not properly restrict filenames under the tmp/files/ directory, which has unspecified impact and attack vectors. *Published: September 03, 2016; 04:59:00 PM -04:00*

## Functional Security requirements for the software
* Protect group private data from leaking to another's group data
* Only authorized users can modify other user's data

# Motivation
*Your motivation for selecting this project*

The motivation behind MISP (Malware Information Sharing Platform and Threat Sharing), it is an open source threat intelligence platform, for open standards for threat sharing.  This open source project started in 2011, which is a newer project, with an active community.  MISP is a community project led by volunteers.  These volunteers welcome contributions to this project, which aids in a development of new ideas, techniques, and ways of thinking about this piece of software.  This will ultimately make this software better and gain a larger user base, with a strong community.  It has a manageable code base, mostly written in php.  Php is readable and it has a large number of tools available to evaluate the code.

This is a multi-user web environment, which requires numerous security requirements.  The most obvious security requirement be authentication in the environment.  Another important security requirement involves group sharing.  This would involve a way to create flexible sharing groups to attribute a mechanism for the distribution of data within certain groups.  Lastly, data sharing is an important security requirement.  Who can view the data?  How do you restrict the access to data?  There needs to be a system to automatically exchange and synchronize data with other users and groups.  In addition, a security mechanism to delegate sharing that will allow for the publication of events or indicators to other organizations.


# References
[1] https://www.gnu.org/licenses/licenses.html#GPL

[2] https://choosealicense.com/licenses/gpl-3.0/
